JUDY WOODRUFF: And now it's time
for Politics Monday with Amy
Walter of The Cook Political
Report and Tamara Keith of NPR.
So, Amy, Tam, you have
just been hearing what
Congresswoman Bustos has said.
In fact, she's still
here at the table.
But, Amy, what do
you make of that?
Are you hearing from the
Democrats where they want
to take this country?
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Well, I will say this.
Every party that's the out party
always struggles with this.
Who are we now that
we're not in charge?
And in this case, Democrats
are not only the out party.
They don't control anything.
It's not just the White House.
They don't have the House or
the Senate or the White House.
It is -- and every
election is a referendum
on the party in power.
The Republicans are
the party in power.
The 2018 election is going to
be a referendum on whether they
were able to accomplish what
they said they were
going to do or not.
It's Democrats' job getting,
I think, as we get into 2020
and the battle is for who is
going to occupy the White
House to have that message that
their standard bearer -- you
ask the question, who is
the leader of your party?
The leader of their party is
going to be the person that they
nominate in 2020 to be their
nominee.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But that's
several years away.
AMY WALTER:
ÑMD+ITÑÑMD-ITÑIt's very
ÑMD+ITÑÑMD-ITÑmany years away.
Remember, Republicans
were successful in the
midterm elections in
2010, Democrats were
successful in the
midterm elections in
2006 in taking control
of Congress away from the
opposite party, not because
they were unified with a message
about who they were or what
they stood for.
They stood against
the party in power.
It was a referendum
on that party.
Voters were not happy
with the party in power.
And the out party benefited.
I think there is plenty of time
for Democrats to figure out
who they are, but they are,
just like Republicans,
very divided ideologically.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Tam, from
your reporting on the Hill,
your reporting from the White
House, do the Democrats feel
like a force that's together,
that's found their voice
right now?
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: They have certainly found
a way to oppose the Republican
legislation.
They not splintered
when it comes to votes.
And part of that is credit to
Nancy Pelosi's ability to whip
votes, which she has honed
over many years in leadership,
and also Chuck Schumer
has kept them together.
There haven't been the
defections that -- particularly
in the Senate, that
President Trump had hoped
he would get.
He had brought some of
these moderate Republicans
in red states who were
up for reelection over
to the White House.
He had sort of tried
maybe to woo them.
It didn't work.
They have not been in
any way forced to have
a wedge between them and
the rest of the Democratic
Party.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Which has been
-- so far, Amy, has contributed
to the fact that Republicans
are still struggling to get
an answer on health care.
AMY WALTER: ÑMD+ITÑÑMD-ITÑRight.
And this goes to the challenge,
Judy, which is, when you're a
party that has been successful,
as Republicans were successful
in the last few years, by
being basically the party of
no, right, they were against
everything that Democrats and
President Obama stood for, that
was successful to get them a
governing -- or a political
majority, but not a governing
majority.
So now that they're in
power, they're struggling
with, what do you do?
They have multiple
factions in the Republican
Party, just as Democrats
have multiple factions.
Trying to get them all together
to agree on something like
a health care bill, which is
super complicated, is a
lot harder than getting
them all to agree that
Obamacare is terrible.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Tam, you
have been out on the road.
You were following Bernie
Sanders in the last
couple of days, who has
been holding rallies,
trying to say what
the Republicans are
doing is all wrong.
What are you seeing?
What are you feeling?
ÑMD+ITÑÑMD-ITÑTAMARA KEITH:
So, one interesting thing
about that is that Bernie
Sanders wants Medicare for
all, single-payer health care.
But he didn't make a big
thing out of it at this rally.
Most of the focus at this
rally that I went to in West
-- or in Kentucky was about the
Republican bill and what
it would mean for people.
And Sanders' message was
really that the Affordable
Care Act, Obamacare,
needs to be fixed, which
is actually standing
for something.
It's like -- it's not just no.
It's yes.
Now, it's not clear
that Democrats can agree
on what the fix is.
And there's more people who
are quietly saying, well, maybe
single-payer, maybe Medicare for
all.
But that -- and that
is a longstanding
divide among Democrats.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But it sounds
Democrats can be unified,
at least around that.
AMY WALTER: ÑMD+ITÑÑMD-ITÑAt
least around that.
But I think Tam
is exactly right.
That's going to be the
bigger challenge in
2020, as the Democrats
try to figure out their
messaging on, do we go further
to the left, talk about
single-payer, Medicare for all,
or do we just say, well,
try to fix what isn't
working in health care?
That, I think, is going
to be a big dividing line
in the Democratic primary.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, can't let
you go without a quick question
about our lead tonight, Tam.
That is the new revelations
about the Trump campaign and
Russia, Donald Trump Jr. meeting
with the Russian
lawyer and so on.
And we have been doing
a lot of reporting.
Is this more of the same, or
have we turned some kind of
an important corner with this
information?
TAMARA KEITH: I think it's hard
to know where the corners are.
This is a new person.
This is Donald Trump Jr., who
is now a person that is involved
in this whose name is out
there.
And a remarkable thing
about this is that he
basically confirmed much
of it on the record,
which is a pretty
remarkable thing.
He confirmed that he arranged
a meeting with top campaign
officials with a Kremlin-linked
lawyer because she was
potentially offering
damaging information
about Hillary Clinton.
That's something.
It's not necessarily collusion.
And collusion isn't necessarily
a violation of the law.
But in this sort of
ongoing drip, drip,
drip, was a bigger drip.
AMY WALTER: ÑMD+ITÑÑMD-ITÑYes.
And it also goes back to
something I feel like we
talk about every time, Judy.
Theoretically, what we should
be talking about today is
simply about health care.
That was supposed to be how
we were set up this week.
This is a big week to
get something through.
The president should be
focusing all of his energy
and attention on doing that.
Instead, now we're talking
once again about Russia.
The other thing that
is consistent, these
are all self-inflicted.
This is not something that the
committees brought up or that
Robert Mueller, the special
prosecutor, has brought up.
This is coming from the lack
of transparency from people
either during the campaign or
during the transition about
their connections to Russia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Because they had
filled out forms that didn't
include this latest information.
AMY WALTER:
ÑMD+ITÑÑMD-ITÑCorrect.
Correct.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, when this
information comes out...
(CROSSTALK)
AMY WALTER: ÑMD+ITÑÑMD-ITÑNow
it looks like they have to
correct, and then it looks
like they're hiding something,
whether they are or not.
Just imagine, in another world,
had they come from the very
beginning and been completely
transparent, even
overtransparent, right?
Anybody that I met that even has
a Russian-sounding last name,
I'm going to put their name on
a piece of paper and I'm going
to give it to you, so you
can never say that I'm trying
to hide anything.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But
that hasn't happened.
AMY WALTER: ÑMD+ITÑÑMD-ITÑBut
TAMARA KEITH: No, and it's a
direct contradiction of things
that they have said publicly and
on the record.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tamara
Keith, Amy Walter, Politics
Monday, thank you both.
AMY WALTER: ÑMD+ITÑÑMD-ITÑYou're
welcome, Judy.
TAMARA KEITH: You're welcome.